docs(perf-test) add docs for the performance testing framework (#2975)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/gateway-oss/2.5.x/performance-testing-framework.md

---
title: Performance Testing Framework
---

## Introduction

Kong codebase includes a performance testing framework (hereinafter called the “framework").
It allows Kong developers and users to evaluate performance of Kong itself,
bundled or custom plugins, as well as plot framegraphs to debug performance bottleneck.
The framework collects RPS (request per second) and latencies of Kong processing the request
to represent performance metrics under different workloads.

The framework is implemented as an extension to Kong's intergration test suite.

## Installation

> The frameworks uses `busted` and some Lua development dependencies of Kong. To setup the environment,

Reviewer: Add a link to the busted testing framework when referencing 'busted' here. So a user to learn more about the framework.

Author: Added!

        results[i] = result
      end

      print(("### Combined result for Kong %s:\n%s"):format(version, assert(perf.combine_results(results))))

      perf.save_error_log("output/" .. version:gsub("[:/]", "#") .. "-single_route.log")
    end)
  end)
end
```

The test can be ran just as a normal busted based test. Run it with bin/busted path/to/this_file_spec.lua.

More examples can be found at [spec/04-perf](https://github.com/Kong/kong/tree/master/spec/04-perf) of Kong
respository.

[Back to top](#introduction)

## API

### perf.use_driver

*syntax: perf.use_driver(name, options?)*

Use driver of name, which must be one of "local", "docker"  or  "terraform". Additional
parameters for driver can be specified in options as a Lua table. Throws error if any.

Only terraform driver expect options parameter, which contains following keys:

- **provider** the service provider name, right now only "equinix-metal"
- **tfvars** Terraform variables as a Lua table; for `equinix-metal` provider,
`packet_project_id` and `packet_auth_token` is required.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.set_log_level

*syntax: perf.set_log_level(level)*

> Set the log level, expect one of `"debug"`, `"info"`, `"notice"`, `"warn"`, `"error"` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sets the log level; expect one of `"debug"`, `"info"`, `"notice"`, `"warn"`, `"error"` and
```

`"crit"`. The default log level is `"info"`.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.set_retry_count

*syntax: perf.set_retry_count(count)*

> Set retry time for each “driver" operation. By default every operation is retried 3 times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sets retry time for each “driver" operation. By default every operation is retried 3 times.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.setup

*syntax: helpers = perf.setup()*

> Prepare environment and returns the spec.helpers module. Throws error if any.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prepares environment and returns the `spec.helpers` module. Throws error if any.
```

> The framework setup some environment variables before importing spec.helpers modules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The framework sets up some environment variables before importing `spec.helpers` modules.
```

> The returned helpers is just a nomal spec.helpers module, user can use same pattern

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The returned helper is just a normal `spec.helpers` module, user can use same pattern
```

in integration tests to setup entities in Kong. DB-less mode is currently not implemented.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.start_upstream

*syntax: upstream_uri = perf.start_upstream(nginx_conf_blob)*

> Start upstream (Nginx/OpenResty) with given nginx_conf_blob. Returns the upstream

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starts upstream (Nginx/OpenResty) with given `nginx_conf`_blob. Returns the upstream
```

URI accessible from Kong's view. Throws error if any.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.start_kong

*syntax: perf.start_kong(version, kong_configs?)*

> Start Kong with given version and Kong configurations in kong_configs as a Lua table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starts Kong with given version and Kong configurations in `kong_configs` as a Lua table.
```

Throws error if any.

To select a git hash or tag, use `"git:<hash>"` as version. Otherwise, the framework
will treat the `version` as a release version and will download binary packages from
Kong's distribution website.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.stop_kong

*syntax: perf.stop_kong()*

Stops Kong. Throws error if any.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.teardown

*syntax: perf.teardown(full?)*

> Teardown. Throws error if any. With terraform driver, set full to true terminates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teardown. Throws error if any. With the terraform driver, setting full to true terminates
```

> all infrastructure while by default it does cleanup only to speed up successive runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
all infrastructure, while by default it does cleanup only to speed up successive runs.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.start_stapxx

*syntax: perf.start_stapxx(stapxx_file_name, arg?)*

> Start the Stap++ script with stapxx_file_name exists in   and addtional CLI args args. Throws error if any.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starts the Stap++ script with `stapxx_file_name` exists in and additional CLI args. Throws error if any.
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure what this means, "Start the Stap++ script with `stapxx_file_name` exists in and additional CLI args" - is something missing here?

> This function blocks until the SystemTap module is fully prepared and inserted into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function blocks until the `SystemTap` module is fully prepared and inserted into the
```

> kernel. It should be called before perf.start_load.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kernel. It should be called before `perf.start_load`.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.start_load

*syntax: perf.start_load(options?)*

> Start to send load to Kong using wrk. Throws error if any. options is a Lua table that may contains:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starts to send load to Kong using `wrk`. Throws error if any. Options is a Lua table that may contain the following:
```

> - **path** string request path, default to / 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **path** String request path; defaults to `/ `.
```

> - **uri** base URI except path, default to http://kong-ip:kong-port/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **uri** Base URI exception path; defaults to `http://kong-ip:kong-port/`.
```

> - **connections** connection count, default to 1000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **connections** Connection count; defaults to 1000.
```

> - **threads** request thread count, default to 5 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **threads** Request thread count; defaults to 5. 
```

> - **duration** number perf test duration in seconds, default to 10 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **duration** Number of performance tests duration in seconds; defaults to 10. 
```

> - **script** content of wrk script as string, default to nil

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **script** Content of wrk script as string; defaults to nil.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.wait_result

*syntax: result = perf.start_load(options?)*

> Wait the load test to finish and return the result as string. Throws error if any.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the load test to finish and returns the result as a string. Throws error if any.
```

> Currently this function waits indefintely until both wrkand stap++ process to exit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently this function waits indefinitely, until both wrk and stap++ process to exit.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.combine_results

*syntax: combined_result = perf.combine_results(results, …)*

> Calculate multiple results returned by perf.wait_result and return their average and min/max.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Calculates multiple results returned by `perf.wait_result` and returns their average and min/max.
```

Throws error if any.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.generate_flamegraph

*syntax: perf.generate_flamegraph(path, title?)*

> Generate a flamegraph with title and save to path. Throws error if any.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generates a FlameGraph with title and saves to path. Throws error if any.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.save_error_log

*syntax: perf.save_error_log(path)*

> Save Kong error log to path. Throws error if any.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Saves Kong error log to path. Throws error if any.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

## Customization

### Add new test suite

> All tests are stored in `spec/04-perf/01-rps` and `spec/04-perf/02-flamegraph` of Kong repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All tests are stored in `spec/04-perf/01-rps` and `spec/04-perf/02-flamegraph` of the Kong repository.
```

> Add a new file under one of the directory and put `#tags` in test description.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add a new file under one of the directories and put `#tags` in the test description.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### Add new provider in terraform

Users can use the terraform driver in most major service providers as long as
it's supported by terraform. The following contracts are made between the framework and terraform module:

> The terraform files are stored in `spec/fixtures/perf/terraform/<provider>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The terraform files are stored in `spec/fixtures/perf/terraform/<provider>`.
```

> Two instances are provisioned, one for running Kong and another for running upstream

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two instances are provisioned, one for running Kong and another for running an upstream
```

> and load (worker). Firewall allows bidirectional traffic between the two instances

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and load (worker). A firewall allows bidirectional traffic between the two instances
```

> and from public internet. Both instances run Ubuntu 20.04/focal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and from the public internet. Both instances run Ubuntu 20.04/focal.
```

> An SSH key to login into both instances exists or will be created

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An SSH key to login into both instances exists or will be created in
```

`spec/fixtures/perf/terraform/<provider>/id_rsa`. The logged-in user has root privilege.

> Following terraform output variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following are terraform output variables:
```

> - **kong-ip** Kong node public IP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **kong-ip** Kong node public IP.
```

> - **kong-internal-ip** Kong node internal IP (if unavailable, provide kong-ip)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **kong-internal-ip** Kong node internal IP (if unavailable, provide kong-ip).
```

> - **worker-ip** Worker node public IP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **worker-ip** Worker node public IP.
```

> - **worker-internal-ip** Worker node internal IP (if unavailable, provide worker-ip)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **worker-internal-ip** Worker node internal IP (if unavailable, provide worker-ip).
```

---
title: Performance Testing Framework
---

## Introduction

The Kong codebase includes a performance testing framework (hereinafter referred to as the “framework").
It allows Kong developers and users to evaluate the performance of Kong itself as well as 
bundled or custom plugins, and plot framegraphs to debug performance bottlenecks.
The framework collects RPS (request per second) and latencies of Kong processing the request
to represent performance metrics under different workloads.

The framework is implemented as an extension to Kong's integration test suite.

## Installation

> The frameworks uses [busted](https://olivinelabs.com/busted/) and some

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The framework uses [busted](https://olivinelabs.com/busted/) and some
```

> Lua development dependencies of Kong. To setup the environment,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lua development dependencies of Kong. To set up the environment,
```

run `make dev` on your Kong repository to install all Lua dependencies.

[Back to top](#introduction)

## Drivers

Three "drivers" are implemented depending on different environments, accuracy
requirements, and setup complexity.

| Driver   | Test between git commits | Test between binary releases | Flamegraph | Test unreleased version |
|----------|--------------------------|------------------------------|------------|-------------------------|
| local    | yes                      |                              | yes        | yes                     |
| docker   | yes                      | yes                          |            |                         |
|terraform | yes                      | yes                          | yes        |                         |

- **local** Driver reuses users' local environment. It's faster to run,
but the RPS and latency number may be influenced by other local programs and thus inaccurate.

>     * Requires Lua development dependencies of Kong, OpenResty and wrk to be installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Requires Lua development dependencies of Kong, OpenResty, and `wrk` be installed.
```

>     * Requires SystemTap, kernel headers and build chain to be installed if generating flamegraph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Requires SystemTap, kernel headers, and build chain to be installed if generating FlameGraph.
```

- **docker** Driver is solely based on Docker images. It's the most convenient driver to setup
as it requires less dependencies. But it may also be influenced by other local programs
and Docker network performance. And it doesn't support FlameGraph generation.

- **terraform** Driver runs in remote VM or bare metal machine. It's most accurate,
but it requires Terraform knowledge to operate and setup.

    * Requires the [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) binary be installed.
    * Requires git binary if testing between git commits. When testing between git commits,
    the framework assumes the current directory is Kong's repo. It will stash your working

>     directory and unstash after test is finished. When using docker or terraform driver,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    directory and unstash after test is finished. When using the docker or terraform driver,
```

>     the framework derives the base version of each commit and uses matching Docker image or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    the framework derives the base version of each commit and uses the matching Docker image or
```

>     Kong binary package and pours local source code inside.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Kong binary package and puts local source code inside.
```

  Thread Stats   Avg      Stdev     Max   +/- Stdev
    Latency    14.71ms   10.66ms  96.77ms   66.18%
    Req/Sec    14.45k     1.79k   20.19k    70.80%
  718942 requests in 10.08s, 164.70MB read
Requests/sec:  71337.25
Transfer/sec:     16.34MB
### Result for Kong git:96326b894f712b5d03bb1bf7ac02d531f6128cd1 (run 3):
Running 10s test @ http://10.88.145.9:8000/s1-r1
  5 threads and 1000 connections
  Thread Stats   Avg      Stdev     Max   +/- Stdev
    Latency    14.47ms   10.13ms  82.81ms   66.57%
    Req/Sec    14.60k     1.64k   22.98k    72.00%
  726452 requests in 10.07s, 166.42MB read
Requests/sec:  72141.41
Transfer/sec:     16.53MB
### Combined result for Kong git:96326b894f712b5d03bb1bf7ac02d531f6128cd1:
RPS     Avg: 70094.04
Latency Avg: 15.52ms    Max: 1040.00ms
```

With samples in [spec/04-perf](https://github.com/Kong/kong/tree/master/spec/04-perf), the RPS and latency
results, Kong error logs and FlameGraph files are saved to `output` directory under current directory.

[Back to top](#introduction)

## API

### perf.use_driver

*syntax: perf.use_driver(name, options?)*

Uses driver name, which must be one of "local", "docker"  or  "terraform". Additional

> parameters for driver can be specified in options as a Lua table. Throws error if any.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
parameters for the driver can be specified in options as a Lua table. Throws error if any.
```

> Only terraform driver expects options parameter, which contains following keys:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only the terraform driver expects an options parameter, which contains following keys:
```

- **provider** The service provider name, right now only "equinix-metal".
- **tfvars** Terraform variables as a Lua table; for `equinix-metal` provider,
`packet_project_id` and `packet_auth_token` is required.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.set_log_level

*syntax: perf.set_log_level(level)*

Sets the log level; expect one of `"debug"`, `"info"`, `"notice"`, `"warn"`, `"error"` and
`"crit"`. The default log level is `"info"`.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.set_retry_count

*syntax: perf.set_retry_count(count)*

Sets retry time for each “driver" operation. By default every operation is retried 3 times.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.setup

*syntax: helpers = perf.setup()*

Prepares environment and returns the `spec.helpers` module. Throws error if any.

The framework sets up some environment variables before importing `spec.helpers` modules.

> The returned helper is just a normal `spec.helpers` module, user can use same pattern

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The returned helper is just a normal `spec.helpers` module. Users can use the same pattern
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.start_upstream

*syntax: upstream_uri = perf.start_upstream(nginx_conf_blob)*

Starts upstream (Nginx/OpenResty) with given `nginx_conf_blob`. Returns the upstream
URI accessible from Kong's view. Throws error if any.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.start_kong

*syntax: perf.start_kong(version, kong_configs?)*

Starts Kong with given version and Kong configurations in `kong_configs` as a Lua table.
Throws error if any.

To select a git hash or tag, use `"git:<hash>"` as version. Otherwise, the framework
will treat the `version` as a release version and will download binary packages from
Kong's distribution website.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.stop_kong

*syntax: perf.stop_kong()*

Stops Kong. Throws error if any.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.teardown

*syntax: perf.teardown(full?)*

Teardown. Throws error if any. With the terraform driver, setting full to true terminates
all infrastructure, while by default it does cleanup only to speed up successive runs.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.start_stapxx

*syntax: perf.start_stapxx(stapxx_file_name, arg?)*

> Starts the Stap++ script with `stapxx_file_name` exists in and additional CLI args. Throws error if any.

Reviewer 2: Not sure about "exists in" part of this sentence.

> This function blocks until the `SystemTap` module is fully prepared and inserted into the

Reviewer 2: Blocks what?

kernel. It should be called before `perf.start_load`.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.start_load

*syntax: perf.start_load(options?)*

Starts to send load to Kong using `wrk`. Throws error if any. Options is a Lua table that may contain the following:

- **path** String request path; defaults to `/ `.
- **uri** Base URI exception path; defaults to `http://kong-ip:kong-port/`.
- **connections** Connection count; defaults to 1000.
- **threads** Request thread count; defaults to 5. 
- **duration** Number of performance tests duration in seconds; defaults to 10. 

> - **script** Content of wrk script as string; defaults to nil.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **script** Content of `wrk` script as string; defaults to nil.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.wait_result

*syntax: result = perf.start_load(options?)*

Waits for the load test to finish and returns the result as a string. Throws error if any.

> Currently this function waits indefinitely, until both wrk and stap++ process to exit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, this function waits indefinitely, or until both `wrk` and Stap++ processes exit.
```

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.combine_results

*syntax: combined_result = perf.combine_results(results, …)*

Calculates multiple results returned by `perf.wait_result` and returns their average and min/max.
Throws error if any.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.generate_flamegraph

*syntax: perf.generate_flamegraph(path, title?)*

Generates a FlameGraph with title and saves to path. Throws error if any.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### perf.save_error_log

*syntax: perf.save_error_log(path)*

Saves Kong error log to path. Throws error if any.

[Back to top](#introduction)

## Customization

### Add new test suite

All tests are stored in `spec/04-perf/01-rps` and `spec/04-perf/02-flamegraph` of the Kong repository.
Add a new file under one of the directories and put `#tags` in the test description.

[Back to top](#introduction)

### Add new provider in terraform

Users can use the terraform driver in most major service providers as long as

> it's supported by terraform. The following contracts are made between the framework and terraform module:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it's supported by Terraform. The following contracts are made between the framework and terraform module:
```
